Clustered Index: Sorts the physical order of the table
                 It is created automatically on the primary key
                 One clustered index per table
                 We can create a clustered index for a table which has no primary key defined

Non Clustered : Can have many non-clustered index per table
                Does not sorth the Physical order
                It creates a seperate index table on the column indexed

Unique NonClustered: Creates a index that checks for duplication

Filtered Index: An index created from a subset of rows. It is laways a non-clustered index type. Apply where clause to filter

In : used with where clause. it matches a particular value. it works like a mulyiple or

select col1,col2...
from table/tables
where col in(l1,l2,l3,l4,l5)

Exists: Operator used in subqueries. It is used to check existence of the record. It returns boolean

select colnames..
from table name
where exists(select colnames from table where condition)

Union: Combine 2 or more resultsets(output of a query)into a single set, without duplicates
Union all: same as above but includes duplicates
Intersect: Takes data from 2 resultsets which are common
Except: Takes data from first resultset and not the second

CTE : are temporary resultsets with a name
-If we would like to have the results of any query stored somewhere, which can be used for any further querying, we can do so with the help of Common Table Expressions(CTE).
-This is avialable within the same scope of execution

Transactions: A unit of work to be executed fully

set implicit_transaction off/on

Begin transaction : within this you can have any valid sql statements.
The transaction would terminate on the following conditions:
 a.Commit
 b.Rollback
 c.System Crash
 d.Unexpected loging off

Acid Properties: Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability

Isolation levels: Read Uncommited
                  Read Committed
                  Repeatable Read
                  Serilaizable
Locks:

Shared Locks and exclusive locks : can be applied at the table level, page level, row level lock

Procedures: series of instructions/statements for execution
re-usable piece of SQL instructions/statements/commands, stored inside the database schema, which can be called, many times. It gets created with the query plan once and reuses the same plan again and again.

Every procedure returns an integer datatype (scalar)





























































